# TAMU WordPress CAS

This plugin allows you to use Texas A&M University's [Central Authentication Service][cas] (CAS) authentication with your WordPress site. Installing this plugin is very simple.

The purpose of this plugin is to offload the handling of users/passwords to a trusted system for authentication (are they who they say they are?) purposes, while still maintaining control for authorization (what is this person allowed to see/do?) from within the backend of the WordPress admin panel. Users are added by TAMU NetID, with no need to worry about choosing passwords. Additionally, the maintainer of the blog now doesn't have to handle forgotten passwords or password resets. The plugin is provided for free (libre & gratis) to the Texas A&M Community (and anyone else who uses a similar CAS system) by the College of Liberal Arts Office of the Dean IT, based on a similar plugin provided by Indiana University UITS Enterprise Web Tech Services team.

## Installation
1. Go to the [plugin page][plugin] on GitHub and click on the ZIP button to download the zip file.
2. Unzip the file once it has downloaded.
3. Using an FTP connection to your website, copy the plugin folder to `/wp-content/plugins/` in your WordPress site.
4. Log into your WP site and activate the plugin from the *Plugins* pane.
5. You may customize the plugin's options as you see fit.

## Options

**CAS Logout** - Logging out will always log you out of your WordPress site. This option lets you choose whether the plugin logs you out of CAS as well.   
**Lockdown** - If you only want your site's content to appear to logged-in CAS users, set this to `Only CAS-Authenticated Visitors`. However, if this is to be a publicly-viewable site, it is recommended to leave this set to `Anyone can see this site`.

## Notes

In order for this plugin to work properly, your *WordPress username* must be the same as your *CAS username*. This applies to all other users.

[cas]: http://infrastructure.tamu.edu/auth/CAS/cas.html#tab_tab1 "Texas A&M Central Authentication Service"
[ewts]: http://uits.iu.edu/page/awty "Information about Enterprise Web Technical Services"
[plugin]: https://github.com/joraff/tamuwpcas "TAMU WP CAS plugin on GitHub"
